What's up, guys? So, we're going to be
reviewing this video right here, 21 real
ways to reduce imple to nearly zero in
2025, made by FrameSync Labs. [music]
And we're going to pretty much see what
stuff that he says or recommends is good
or bad or it's completely pointless. And
we're going to be watching this and
letting you guys know what you should do
and if this video is a good video. So,
let's get right into it. For every
ultimate input lag fix video that didn't
work, I'd probably have enough to buy an
RTX5090. But you're here because you
want real results. So, let's cut the
crap, shall we?
>> You've probably tried every pro tip from
those clickbait videos telling you to
disable this and then enable that. Yet,
everything still feels laggy.
>> That's because most of it is nonsense.
>> That is true. So, everything that you
see here is nonsense. So, especially
this keyboard properties right here,
this is not doing anything to your
keyboard delay. What this is going to do
is, let's just say you open up a
notepad, for example, and just hold down
a key. This is going to make it faster
to spam that key basically in a notepad.
This doesn't really do anything. And
it's the same thing with filter keys and
a lot of these lower repeat delay, all
that sort of stuff. it doesn't actually
apply in game because these are just
related to your keyboard, how it's being
used in Windows and games in general,
they're always going to use raw input.
And what this means is that anytime you
hop in a game, let's just say you use
mouse acceleration on your mouse,
whenever you hop in game, that's
automatically off because you're using
raw input in the games. So that's why on
windowed you're probably going to notice
mouse acceleration. But in full screen
mode, you're not going to notice that
type of stuff because there's raw input.
So, it's the same thing with the
keyboard. Yeah, that's pretty much why
this doesn't work. And now, these power
options, it depends on what you're
changing here. A lot of these actually
do matter, but for example, turn off
hard disk after 0 minutes. This is not
really going to affect your gameplay.
I'm not sure what this is right here,
but just continue watching.
>> Netflix set priority and set it to high.
>> So, high priority in games actually
doesn't do anything. It's not going to
really affect your gameplay. If
anything, it's just going to cause
problems because you're giving high
priority to a game and there's a bunch
of priorities in your Windows for
drivers, for background services, and
all that stuff. So, whenever you set a
game to high priority, and let's just
say you have a quad-core processor,
you're going to have a horrible time
playing that game and using Windows at
the same time. And for FPS, it doesn't
really do anything. It's been I don't
know why people keep regurgitating this.
There's really no information out there
that there's actually a benefit from
setting it to high priority. I've tested
it myself with Fortnite back whenever it
used to work. Nowadays, you can't really
set it to high priority in Fortnite
because easy anti-che completely blocks
whatever you do to the game exe. Uh same
thing with affinities. You can't even
set it to Fortnite. So, a lot of these
BS tips now don't even work because the
anti-che blocks it, which is a good
thing and also a bad thing cuz people
are going to still try to get that stuff
done. But high priority has never done
anything for the past few years. USB
settings set.
>> Oh wow. This is my video. All it does is
put USB devices to sleep when they're
idle and your mouse is definitely not
idle when gaming. This is true. I'll
admit that. This video it's just a
simple video. Uh a lot of these YouTube
shorts, including mine. We're not going
to put stuff that is going to be super
crazy or going to give you that crazy
FPS or lower input lag. It's just going
to be simple one-click stuff to pretty
much just show you how to use your
computer and then just show you there's
a lot of options that you can change
pretty much. But let's just say a
Windows update drops and I don't know if
you've read on Twitter or any of these
forums, a lot of these Windows updates
nowadays are causing a lot of problems.
So let's just say a new Windows update
drops and pretty much your USB devices
start becoming idle while you're gaming
because of a Windows update. So that's
why like yes, in a way it's not good to
disable or there's it's pointless to
disable, but at the same time you're not
really gaining anything from having it
enabled on a gaming PC. So that's why
it's kind of doesn't do anything for
gaming, but you should not really have
it enabled. Spend setting to disabled.
>> Set your repeat delay to short rate to
fast. Oh,
>> you explained it as well right here. Uh
what this repeat delay stuff does. So
it's pretty good. I like this. So, I
like this so far.
>> Zero delay feels good. Only if it ever
existed. Now, I know working in
McDonald's is worse than sharing basic
Windows XP tweaks labeled as no delay,
but honestly, it's becoming a little too
much now. And don't get me wrong, if
you're regularly watching these
YouTubers,
>> so I mentioned this earlier, filter keys
doesn't do anything. Don't use this. Do
not worry about using it. It just
doesn't do anything for games
>> content. That's fine. All I'm saying is
as much as you don't want to believe it,
this is what affects your input lag the
most. Depending
>> that's true
>> on the mouse you use, for example, this
alone can shave up to a huge 10
milliseconds of input latency, assuming
you're using a modern gaming mouse of
some sort. Let's pretend
>> Okay. Well, I wouldn't put the
>> I wouldn't put this mouse as a modern
gaming mouse. I'd probably put something
else, but that's true.
>> Using a modern gaming mouse of some
sort. Let's pretend [snorts] you have a
Steel Series AOX 5. And while this mouse
looks just like any other mouse out
there, it has a whopping 8.4
milliseconds of click latency. Now, you
might think it's not that much. Well,
think again because the Razer Viper V3
Pro has only 1 millisecond, which is
nearly nine times less.
>> Yep. So, I actually reviewed a video or
I actually reviewed a mouse on my
channel. Uh the M chose I forgot what
the name is. M chose something. I'm
using it right now. So, it's almost just
as good as the Razer Viper V3 Pro when
it comes to click latency and a lot of
these other mouses. Now, it's a $50
mouse that weighs 40 g, 8,000 hertz on
the dongle. So, it's a really good
mouse, but your peripherals matter a
lot. You need to see what the pros are
using cuz while the pros don't know a
lot, they really care about how their
game feels. So, for example, the Gro X,
it's amazing shape. Everybody copies it.
this mouse that I have right now, this
$50 M chose. Again, it it copies the
shape of the G Pro a little bit and all
these mousees just copy it. Now,
>> now imagine this. You have a mid-range
or a low-end PC with a total input lag
of 30 milliseconds. This change alone
can cut your delay by nearly 1/3. And
the best part about it, we're just
getting started. But anyway, since we're
still on the topic regarding gaming
mice, let's quickly talk about polling
rate while we're at it. Polling rate,
more so in mice rather than keyboards,
can also reduce your input latency to
some extent. For example, a mouse with a
1000 hertz polling rate will have about
a millisecond of delay, while a 2 and
4,000 Hz mice will be at 0.5 and 0.25
milliseconds, respectively. There's also
plenty of 8,000 Hz mice out there, but
they're more of a marketing fluff and
don't offer you anything more than a 4K
mouse would. Well, except for putting
unnecessary load on your CPU. So, this
is where we're going to have to
disagree. 8000 Hz, while yes, it's going
to put more load on the CPU because it's
using more CPU cycles, you need to have
a good processor, obviously for that,
you need to have a specific monitor for
8,000 Hz to actually saturate the
polling rate. So, you need to have at
least 360 Hz in order to notice that you
have an 8000Hz mouse. So, yes, 4,000 is
great for most people. And if you have
low-end to mid-range system, just stick
to 4,000 probably. And even then, it's
probably a stretch. depends on your
processor. But if you have a high-end
system, you're pushing a lot of frames,
and you have a 360 Hz monitor, 8000 Hz
is definitely the move. So, but uh we're
gonna have to disagree. It is a
difference, but you obviously need to
have the stuff to show the difference
there because 144 hertz, for example,
it's not going to saturate your pulling
rate enough for you to have the proper
8000Hz experience. If you already have
an 8K pulling rate mouse and your games
are stuttering, set it back to two or
even 4K. Now, moving on to the next
thing
>> keyboard.
>> I'll just keep it short and say that
with all these new Hall effect keyboards
coming out, you're literally at a
disadvantage if you're still using an
old mechanical keyboard. Keyboards that
support rapid trigger let you manually
adjust the actuation point of each key
and therefore making your key presses
more responsive and accurate. So, we'll
just skip this part to change your
in-game sensitivity, too. For example,
if you're using a sensitivity of one in
game and 800 DP one you had before,
>> yes. So, DP actually lowers your
latency. So, I personally use I think I
use 3,200.
Let's just actually go look at that real
quickly.
So, usually you could use 1,600 to 3200
and then just drop your in-game sense by
however much you increase it. So let's
just say for example you normally play
800 DPI and then you increase it to
1,600. You would just divide your
in-game sense by 1/2 just like he
showing basically
>> with a much decreased sensor latency.
>> Now moving on to your USB ports. There
are different ports on the front and the
back of your PC. Some of which are
connected directly to the CPU while
others are connected to the chipset
instead. Y
>> lots of people claim that connecting
your mouse to a USB port that's directly
connected to the CPU will reduce input
delay, but the thing is most of these
claims are only partially true. Yes,
your latency will be reduced, but with
tech nowadays being so fast, this will
only result in your input latency
dropping by about 20 micros, which is
150th.
>> So, here's the thing. There's also
something called mouse field. So your
polling rate, let's just say you do a
mouse graph tester, you can see how much
variation there is in your pulling rate
on your mouse. The higher the variation,
the more unstable your mouse is going to
feel in game, and it's just not going to
be as smooth. Now, if you're pulling
rate, there's very minimal variation. So
just say you're at 4,000 hertz, and
there's only 10 hertz variation. So you
could go from 410 hertz to 3990 Hz. That
is a very good pulling rate stability
right there. But let's just say you
don't do what he's saying right here and
you just leave your ports however and
let's just say you plug them into the
front ports. You could have almost 500
Hz variation. So you could go from 3500
Hz all the way to 4500 Hz. It's
completely unstable. Now is 500 Hz
variation enough for you to notice it in
game? I don't know. That's up to you as
a person. But I understand why he thinks
I made the same video multiple times cuz
he never watched them. But each video I
had to pretty much do or show a
different method on how to figure out
what the best USB ports are for your PC.
And now while that may seem bad, you can
see that they're all different time
lengths. So first two minutes, 5
minutes, 8 minutes. The reason for that
is just because there's different
methods of showing it. So actually this
one that's 5 minutes. I think this is
the correct method because the best way
to check it is using HW info. So let's
just say you have a 900x3D for example.
So let's just open up HW info like so.
And just start it up in full mode. And
this is pretty much what I showed in the
latest YouTube video. Uh before that I
was using device manager. I was just
showing it completely wrong. And
obviously I had to make updated videos
to account for that. But if you expand
your bus, your PCIe bus, you can see all
these PCIe connectors connecting to your
PC. So, as you can see, this is a
chipset USB controller. So, let's just
see what we have plugged into there. So,
I have my phone, right? And that's about
it. My mouse and keyboard is not here.
Now, if we scroll down, expand this. As
you can see, AMD Raphael, that's the
code name for my CPU. I have my mouse
right here plugged into this USB
controller. And if we scroll down,
because there's a bunch of USB
controllers on this uh PC, I should find
my keyboard somewhere. Anyways, you get
the idea that I was showing different
methods to see where your USB ports are
at for your CPU because a lot of these
motherboards, especially the one I got,
you cannot just go to your manual and
figure out where it is. It doesn't
really specifically say these are the
CPU USB ports. Now, let's talk a little
bit about G-Sync and VSYNC. You probably
already knew that if you hate screen
tearing, you enable G-Sync or well,
Freync, but did you know they actually
add latency? Right now, the most optimal
way to get the lowest latency possible
while having zero tearing is to combine
G-Sync, VSYNC, and Nvidia Reflex Plus
Boost.
>> True. Very true. So, I I actually made a
YouTube video a while ago with this, and
it's a dramatic difference in game. So,
the game I was using it for at the time,
I think it was Call of Duty. I'm not
sure which one. It was either MW3 or
BO6, I forget, but it was a drastic
difference obviously compared to playing
to unlimited, at least on my monitor.
So, if you're looking for the maximum
smoothness, you just want crystal clear
gameplay, not your fastest thing
possible or the maximum FPS, this is
what you're going to use. It's amazing,
but you need to have a capable monitor.
So, the monitors nowadays are great
depending on which one you get, but you
have to do your research obviously with
G-Sync. But again, if you have an older
monitor, G-Sync can add input lag, 3
milliseconds, depending on how old it
is, and then it's not worth it. This
will cap your frame rate to below your
monitor's refresh rate, which not only
will prevent screen tearing, but will
also reduce your input delay
tremendously. Just keep in mind, you
should enable VSSync in the Nvidia
control panel, not in game. The next
thing I want to mention is the Nvidia
and AMD Radeon scaling options. Simply
set scaling to no scaling in the Nvidia
control panel or centered if you're
using an AMD GPU. The best part about
this is that you'll instantly feel the
input delay reduction. Just keep in mind
that you should skip this part if you
use a custom resolution as it might
result in black bars.
>> So, no, this is not going to do anything
if you're using native. There's
absolutely zero scaling on native
resolution. So regardless of what you
put, no scaling, aspect ratio, full
screen in the video control panel, it
wouldn't really do anything to your
input lag cuz you're playing on native.
There is no scaling. Now, if you're
using stretch res, obviously there's a
bit of scaling there. You have to fill
out your monitor to not have black bars.
So in that case, you would have to use
scaling. And then that's where it's can
be a little bit different depending on
what you want to use. So, for example,
you can just use monitor scaling because
a lot of your guys' monitors, they have
display scalers built into them. That
most likely is going to give you the
lowest input lag possible depending on
your monitor. Now, also GPU scaling
might be a little bit faster. Maybe your
monitor doesn't have a display scaler.
So, then you have to use GPU scaling,
which means you have to set your scaling
to full screen in your Nvidia control
panel or adrenaline software. So on
native resolution, yes, I would say just
leave it on no scaling, but there's
really no point of changing it. You're
not really gaining anything. So another
thing that can increase your input
latency is overlays such as Discord, for
example. These can be quite taxing,
especially on low-end computers, and
will surely tank your FPS and in turn
introduce extra input lag. Make sure you
disable any overlays while playing to
help decrease your input latency. Your
frame time.
>> Who is that? Why is he using the
hardware part for a moment? This time
we'll talk about monitors and how they
correlate to input latency. We'll split
this into two parts. One about refresh
rates and another one about response
times. Let's cover the refresh rates
first. Now, imagine you have a 60 Hz.
>> I like how he uses the Fortnite uh
background. It's hilarious. Here's how
you'll benefit in terms of latency if
you upgrade to a higher refresh rate
monitor. For example, going from 60 to
240 hertz will reduce your latency by
12.
>> So, we'll skip this. I feel like So,
we'll skip this. I feel like most people
know that having a higher refresh rate
is going to give you lower input lag
>> quality. While for those looking for the
absolute lowest response times, OLED
might be the right choice for you. So TN
and OLED, uh, I used to just blindly
recommend everybody OLED because the
fastest monitors out there, fastest
panel, best looking, dark colors, all
that stuff. But for competitive gamers,
the TN is going to be a bit better. So,
a lot of the Fortnite guys, they prefer
the TN panel. And it's understandable
why the game is vibrant. There's a lot
of colors. You have to see everything.
Uh, so if they're using an OLED and the
colors are super dark whenever they're
dark, you're not going to be able to see
the enemies and it's going to be a bit
of an issue. So OLED is mostly going to
be for laid-back gaming. Best picture
quality and just a great gaming
experience. TN panel, I'd say it's going
to be mostly for competitive gamers.
That's going to be Valerant,
Counterstrike, Fortnite, and a variety
of other games. But at the end of the
day, it's your personal preference
between these two. If you get a 600 Hz
TN panel or an OLED panel, is the input
lag really that different? It's really
up to you. In my opinion, I would prefer
the OLED panel just because of my style
of gaming. I'm not really as competitive
as I used to be, but depending on the
games that I play, I might prefer the TN
panel. So, that's the case. And that's
why like now I'm very iffy on what to
recommend for monitors. I always mention
that TN panel is going to be better for
competitive and OLED is mostly for not
really casuals I'd say but people who
just want the best pictures and want
that 1440p
resolution.
>> Another very important thing is your 1%
FPS lows and frame times.
>> Thank you.
>> A lot of people ignore
>> Thank you. But here's the thing
>> important thing is your one
>> here's the thing. Uh you didn't show 1%
average FPS right here. This is
percentile. It's completely different.
So, we'll actually open up Cat Frame X
and show you guys what I'm talking
about. So, percentile is just completely
different measurement than average FPS.
Yes, it matters. Yes, he's right. But he
he's not showing the correct thing. So,
let's just say for example, we'll use
this result. I'm not sure what this is
from. You can see it says.1%
FPS. You can see mine says 1% low
average FPS. 1% low average FPS. So,
it's completely different metrics. If I
change them to what he has listed on the
video as the screenshot and you can
ignore the colors. That's just uh what I
picked. You see that's completely
different measurements, right? Um there
are different values.
Um he's a little bit wrong when it comes
to that. You probably should show the
correct values for this. Very very
important. Also the frame times
>> FPS lows and frame times. A lot of
people ignore those and focus on average
and maximum FPS.
>> Yes, that's true. Yes. care about
maximum FPS. Average doesn't really m
obviously matters to an extent, but it
depends on what you're looking at. Your
0.1 and 1% lows matter a lot. So, I'm
getting 400 FPS.1%
lows on this system um in Fortnite, I'm
guessing, and performance mode. So, the
game is going to feel extremely smooth.
Now, let's just say I had doubledigit
um.1% lows, which I'm probably have a
result of that here. This is endgame.
Yeah. So, as you can see, 81.5.1%
low average. This is endgame. So, this
is with a 40 player and a moving zone,
all that stuff, right? It drops the FPS
tremendously. And that's why endgame for
everyone feels terrible because the 0.1%
lows are terrible. Now, if we use the
metric he was showing in the video,
which is wrong, um it's just the default
like cap frame X. Um you see that you
can't really One second. Let me you
can't see like you kind of see that the
0.1s are as bad as the average obviously
because that's what matters. That's just
a percentile. It's a completely
different measurement. So very very
important that your 1% lows are high
close to the average FPS as you could
possibly get. Obviously in a game like
Fortnite that's not really possible just
cuz it's a you know big map and lots of
stuff going on. If you're playing
competitive and you're heading over to
like endame um it's going to feel like
terrible. So that's why these pros, they
only play on 240 fps instead of 360 fps
because of the endgame situation. But
yeah,
>> in reality, the 1% lows are the most
important if your main focus is reducing
input delay as much as possible. Now,
there are many ways to improve these two
metrics. One of them is disabling most
power saving features as we mentioned
earlier, as well as doing plenty of
other Windows and BIOS tweaks.
Unfortunately, we won't be able to cover
all of them in this video, but please
make sure you're subscribed as I'll be
uploading separate in-depth videos on
this topic. Next up on the list is
overclocking. You probably already know,
but overclocking basically means making
your components run above the rated.
This is different for every CPU, GPU,
and RAM, but you can look up some guides
on your specific models. Doing this,
>> so this is where we're going to have to
disagree. Do not look up guides on
YouTube for overclocking. you're going
to mess up your system
>> and reduce your time. Just don't forget
to keep an eye on your temperatures if
you decide to go down that path. Now,
let's talk.
>> Now, temperatures are not going to be
the biggest problem with overclocking.
If your temperatures are bad with
overclocking,
there's two reasons why. The first
reason is your CPU cooler is terrible.
And the second reason is you probably
put a ridiculous amount of voltage and
you don't know how to overclock, which
if you happen to fall under the second
category, you need to stop overclocking
completely and just leave your system
alone because yes, you will damage your
system doing that, especially on Intel.
Now, for the AMD people uh using
precision boost overdrive, you could
just go watch a guide for that. It's
very simple. Precision boost overdrive
is just an algorithm. You're just
adjusting that algorithm. You're not
really increasing voltage, per se. And
99% of the time, you're just using curve
optimizer to undervolt the CPU. So,
you're not going to really have
overheating issues unless you already
have a bad cooler. And if you're having
any crashes with that precision boost
overdrive and curve optimizer combo,
your curve optimizer is just too low.
So, the CPU starved out of voltage and
it's unstable at the frequencies you're
trying to run. A lot of these guides out
there, you're going to cause a lot of
issues with your system. So, that's why
I just recommend do not watch the
guides. you're going to have to just
look in forums on maybe Discord servers
or, you know, just kind of tinker around
and learn it yourself and see what works
because a lot of these videos are going
to tell you, oh, for example, oh yeah,
1.3 1.45 voltage is fine on idle. And
another video is going to tell you, oh,
you should not go above 1.28 voltage on
load. It's just conflicting information,
right, on Intel, especially. So, in that
case, I wouldn't re really recommend go
watch whatever guy that you can cuz a
lot of these guys, especially the bigger
tech channel, they have no idea what
they're doing. Uh, genuinely, I've seen
some of their videos nowadays, um, they
don't know how to work the CPUs that
they buy. They just pretty much just
post videos from sponsored deals or free
stuff and then just review it. That's
pretty much what they do. They don't
even test it properly. So, that's kind
of the case with these big YouTube
channels. And that's why watching their
guides most of the time is going to
cause cause issues unless you're on AMD.
AMD is just kind of like a safe thing.
You can just do whatever you want.
There's not really any problems on
Intel. It's more of like, oh, you're
going to notice fast. You're going to
know if you have problems or not just
because of how you're using static
overclocks for Intel and you're just not
really doing the same thing as AMD where
you're just adjusting precision boost,
overdrive, and it's just like one or two
numbers. On Intel, you're adjusting ring
ratio. You're adjusting efficiency core
ratio, performance core ratio, Vcore
load line calibration, and then
explaining load line calibration to all
of you, which all of you have different
motherboard vendors, and all of you have
different motherboards.
All the loadline calibrations usually
perform differently on your
motherboards. So, that's why I I'm just
like, listen, if you want to overclock
your system, either you're going to have
to learn the hard way or just not do it
at all. So, that's kind of the case with
that. I wouldn't just go and watch
whatever guide there is because you're
going to run into issues. And for GPU
overclocking, it's just MSI After
Burner. So, it's very easy. You can just
go watch a guide for it. Background
apps. I know some of you got 50
gazillion apps running in the background
while playing Fortnite. And that's a
really bad thing for obvious reasons,
especially if you care about input
delay, for example. This is because apps
like these use extra processor cycles,
while others add overlays that require
your GPU to put extra work into
rendering them. Now, I'm not even going
to talk about RGB apps. They're the
worst to ever grace your computer, and
I'd recommend them as soon as possible.
>> In addition to this, if you'd like to
keep your device settings, please use
the onboard memory instead. But anyway,
let's move on to the next one. Power
plans. Certain custom power plans can
actually decrease your input latency.
And to save you the hassle of trying all
popular power plans out there, I made a
video about this and tested all of them,
which I'll leave in the description
below for you to watch later. Another
absolutely good practice you should be
doing is disabling core zero for the
games you play. The reason why is
because most interrupts happen on the
first physical core. So,
>> so he's recommending this, but Fortnite
you can't do that because of easy
antiche. Valer, I'm not sure, but he is
right when it comes to the core zero
thing cuz in CS2, my benchmark, at least
in the Heaven benchmark or Dust 2
benchmark, whichever it's called, it
jumps up 100 FPS whenever you uncheck
core zero. So, he is right when it comes
to this. However, some games just can't
do it because of the anti-che. So, not
really applicable Fortnite. For other
games, yep, test it. But it also depends
on your CPU. Let's just say, for
example, you have a quad core CPU and
you do this, you're going to lose
frames. Uh, if you have a six core CPU,
I'm not sure you'd have to test. On a 8
core though, yeah, it does help
performance pretty much on at least
depending on the game. CS2 is a huge
difference in Fortnite. I mean, it's not
really possible to test because of you
can't really set affinities on Fortnite.
Valerant, I haven't looked at it yet,
but I know Valerant just doesn't even
play nice with efficiency cores on
Intel. So, Valerant is probably one of
those games that's like, you know, you
might have to want to uncheck Core Zero.
But, I want to recommend this to
everyone. It just depends on your case
and depends on what games you play
>> on it is probably not the brightest
idea. Just make sure you have more than
six and preferably eight physical cores
before.
>> Yeah. So yeah, he already said what I
was going to say. Nice.
>> Also have a video covering all of that
plus much more which I'll leave in the
description along with the other two.
Another thing you could try is setting
win32 priority separation to decimal 40.
This will set your background and
foreground quantity. I don't know why he
showed this because he's going to create
a whole bunch of skitsos.
I'm going to save you guys the headache.
Just leave it on default and stop
obsessing over this value. You're going
to waste a lot of time because you're
going to obsess over this whenever you
have like a dog system or you know
a very bad overclock going on or
something and it's just a waste of time.
>> Value of 18 fixed length and a short
contact switch interval. You should also
look into updating your chipset graphics
and network drive. chipset. I'm going to
have to disagree with that. Chipset
really never done anything for me. On
Intel especially, it's probably a bad
idea to install chipset drivers. On
laptops, it's more of a thing that you
have to do just to get the laptop
working. It depends on your system. On a
modern desktop system, we don't really
ever install chipset drivers. There's
really no point to I've never seen any
significant gains. The only time I've
seen games is whenever you're using a
dual CCD processor like a 9950 X3D or
7950 X3D and the games are not setting
the cores to the correct which is like
the ones with the X3D cache. So in that
case, yes, you're going to have to
download the chipset drivers if you want
to do it that route. However, you use
process lasso or you just completely
disable the second CCD if you can and
just make it like a Ryzen 7. But it just
depends on your use case. But yeah,
chipset drivers I wouldn't recommend.
Graphics drivers, sure, no problem.
Network drivers, also very good. Update
them. But yeah,
>> along with your BIOS and operating
system, these often include
optimizations for specific game.
>> I'm going to have to disagree with BIOS
as well. I've said it probably in the
past, just go update your BIOS. But it
it just depends on your system. If your
system works, like let's just say you're
on Ryzen 5000 series, like a Ryzen
5800X, and you're already on like a
pretty recent BIOS, so like 2023 or, you
know, just just a BIOS that like came
out a year after your CPU already came
out. Unless you know there's actually
issues on your BIOS, there's zero point
of updating and there's absolutely no
performance gain unless you obviously
know that there's a problem with your
current BIOS. But for most people on
these older systems, there's no point of
updating BIOS. Now, let's just say
you're on a Ryzen 9000 series, so a B650
motherboard, an 8 A8 X870 motherboard,
something like that. Yes, update to the
latest BIOS as soon as you get it. Uh
there's a lot of fixes with that because
the other boxes have a lot of bugs and
stuff, but unless you're on these
systems, there's really no point of
updating. Uh the other system that you
would have to update is like Core Ultra.
So, the new Intel CPUs, if for whatever
reason you decided to buy them, which by
the way, if you bought them, you just
pretty much didn't do your research, it
just takes a single glucose search to
realize that the Core Ultra processors
are not worth your money. You could have
just gotten a 9800 X3D or even a 7800
X3D is better than those. So, yeah, in
those cases right there, you would
update the BIOS to avoid issues,
especially on the Core 9 Ultra because
of the many issues that came up on those
systems. It was absolutely insane
whenever those came out. games used easy
anti-che would completely blue screen
your system because you were on core 9
ultra and the system wasn't updated to
handle the kernel anti-che. So, it
depends on your system obviously, but
Core 9 Ultra, newer AMD processors,
update your BIOS, right? If you're on
anything older and there's no issues
with your BIOS, there's no issues with
compatibility. There's no weird like,
you know, stability issues or, you know,
everything looks fine, do not update
your BIOS. It's not recommended.
Updating your Windows is also another
thing I'm going have to disagree with.
Uh, I don't know if you've been reading
on Twitter, but there's a lot of
problems with these new Windows updates.
They're using AI to code some of these
Windows updates and it's causing a lot
of problems. Some of these problems
actually required Nvidia to release a
hot fix GPU driver because I think it
was some Assassin's Creed game dropped
like 50 frames from a Windows update.
Nvidia had to go out there and release a
hot fix driver that fixed all of that
and also fixed some issue with Black Ops
7. But again, like updating your
Windows, there's really no point of
doing that unless you need to for
whatever reason for a program to work or
a certain game to work or your system to
even work. Cuz I know some of the Core 9
Ultra doesn't play well with older
Windows 11 versions. So yeah, updating
your system, I wouldn't really recommend
it. Just depends on your situation,
obviously. Like if you're playing games
like Counterstrike 2 and using Face It
Antiche, they're going to make you
update certain stuff just cuz the
security patches. But yeah,
>> games and even for your components,
which can both reduce your input delay
and give you an FPS boost for free.
>> I'm not going to comment on that, but
you get the idea. It's probably not
going to be
>> Now, let's talk a little bit about
component upgrade choices. Now, I'm
aware this is not an option for most
people at the moment, but in all
honesty, upgrading your PC and
peripherals will give you a much bigger
latency reduction than any tweak out
there would. Take this for example. if
you had a Ryzen 52600 chip.
>> Yeah, obviously. So, we're going to end
the video here. There's really no point
in watching the rest. You're just going
to talk about PC upgrades. So, when it
comes to PCs, depends on what games
you're trying to play. If you're trying
to play Fortnite, you need to have a
decent modern processor. So, Ryzen 5800
X3D, even an i7 12700K, very great
processors. The 12th gen i7 is going to
perform very good with manual tuning and
overclocking. The 5800 X3D is obviously
going to be better out of the box just
because it's a X3D processor, but having
these two, you're going to get solid
frames, very low input lag in Fortnite.
And then you just need to have like a
decent graphics card. I'd say like,
yeah, even a 1080 Ti is perfectly fine
for Fortnite on performance mode on
1080p. So, depends on you as a person,
depends on you as your PC, what you
play, all that stuff, what resolution.
Like for example, if you're playing Call
of Duty Black Ops 7, you want to play on
max graphics, you want to play on 1440p,
you're going to most likely want a 4080
and a higherend processor like an i9.
So, it just depends on you. But
nowadays, pre-builts and the AMD
processors, gaming PCs have become
pretty affordable, I'd say, compared to
a few years ago. So, if you're able to,
I would highly recommend, you know,
investing in a new system now, making
sure it's very good, making sure that
you've done your research, gotten good
RAM, good motherboard, a good CPU
cooler, a good power supply, all that
stuff. And then you're going to be set
on that PC for a couple of years. These
PCs nowadays, guys, are pretty fast. I
had an i9 1300 KS. I'm pretty sure that
came out in 2023, 2022. That thing was
still slamming. it was still getting
good frames in Fortnite. I was pretty
much getting good frames on all my
games. Yeah, it's there's really no
point of upgrading once you get these
high-end processors, at least nowadays,
because they are so fast. So, I would
highly recommend investing now and not
getting buyers remorse later. Because if
you buy a 9800 X3D now, a good
motherboard with it, some good RAM
sticks, you're going to be set with that
for the next 5 years probably with no
issues. I mean, look at the guys with
the 5800 X3D. They've completely won.
They're able to run every game. They're
able to max out 507 Ti. They are doing
solid. So, highly recommend nowadays
investing in your system as much as
possible before you're buying it. Do not
do not at whatever chance you get, do
not obligated to buy a terrible system
and think of an idea to upgrade. Just
don't buy the system yet. It's going to
serve you way better. You're going to
have a lot more fun with that and it's
going to last you way longer and you
won't have to keep doing this endless
cycle of upgrading that a lot of my
clients unfortunately do. A lot of my
clients who, you know, just buy a
terrible system from the beginning,
they're constantly trying to upgrade
something, which I told them in the
beginning, listen, dude, you're going to
have to just invest and just get the
best system right off the bat so you
don't have to, you know, sit there and
think about upgrading. But yeah, that's
telling you guys from personal
experience. But yeah, uh, honestly,
solid video. Not that bad. I don't know
why he's coming after me for making
apparently the same video, but I mean,
if you watch the video, they're
completely different. Like the video. I
like how he really emphasized.1% lows
and, you know, all these PC upgrades and
overclocking. I like how he emphasized
that. Yeah. I mean, that's pretty much
it for this video. It's not that bad.
We'll review some other videos later on
the channel. Let me know if you guys
like this style of videos. I'll do more
of them if you want. I'll do some myth
busting as well. But yeah, if you learn
something, drop down in the comments.
And if you want us to optimize your PC
and get you running like the pros, then
let me know. and book with the link in
description at.net. But otherwise, it's
going to be pretty much it for me, guys.
Peace.